---
layout: post
title: koma's 
---

This is some uncut shit.

I feel like I need to write and need to vent a little. \
Express myself and use this as an outlet for it.

So it's likely, actually definitely, going to be unfiltered, poorly written, will likely contain a few expletives, and be more personal than you ever desired.

But something that I think you might relate to too.


<br>

So today I went out to Rat Rock with a goal in mind. \
Koma's roof (lite). The "stand" start which is a little funny and contrived. \
Has a bit of a butt bounce and ethics around starting off a mat or not.

But a pretty hard climb.  

It's something I set as a goal for myself earlier in the year. \
I had the idea, I think while planning for Red Rocks, my first outdoor trip. \
To start a "Ticks" note.

To write down all the climbs I'd like to do, all the goals I'd like to achieve.

A lot of which were around preventing injury and training. \
Which to this day, I'm very glad I did and adopted that mindset. 

But there were also some very concrete climbs in the area I wanted to do this year.

Koma's roof was one of them.


<br>

Koma's was a climb I never really tried when I wrote it down. \
I think I might've pulled onto the start holds a few times, never got my butt off the ground.

But for some reason I was drawn to it.

Less about the movement (I didn't even realize what the movement was at that time).

But a very personal, ego thing of just like a hard climb. A statement sort of. \
A rock that everyone knew, everyone climbed at, and everyone tried.

I wanted to say, sort of prove, and state that yeah. \
I can do Koma's, I'm at that level right now.

<br> 

This was all earlier in the year when I had absolutely no idea if that was even remotely possible. \
At that time, pretty objectively too, I was a lot weaker. My hardest send outdoors was a dubious v4 - Rat Patrol, also at Rat Rock.

I didn't check out the moves until a week ago, and even then, didn't really commit to them.

But I set the goal anyways. \
And got a little attached to it.

Would open up my little notes doc and think about it occasionally. \
Look up beta videos and think about doing it.

<br>

So I pulled on today.

Went to the rock with sort of the idea that "yeah, there's a 50/50 this goes today."

It wasn't a fully no-expectations sort of, let's go out and see what happens. \
In my mind, I knew (from the last time I touched it), that yeah, I could pull off the holds and generate to the next one.

And I also knew that if I did the first move, I'd be able to piece it together pretty quick.

So while I don't think my expectations weren't very high, they were there. It'd be dishonest to say they were not. \
I thought I could do it.

And I don't think that's the issue.

I felt pretty positive warming up, learning the move, and made a lot of incremental progress towards it.

Learned where to position my feet, generate tension, where to look at while going for the move (an always weird but incredibly important move).

And ended up doing it quite a few times. \
And when I actually stuck it too - felt easy. Felt like it should be repeatable if I did the move well.

<br>

And then things went really downhill.

There was somewhat the pressure of "Oh, I can do this move now, it felt kinda easy, I'm getting better at it, it's time to send.""

But I think I managed that expectation quite quickly.

What really started irking me was a few things. \
A few dudes more specifically.

Vaguely European, quite cocky, "low EQ" as Josh described them. \
They just started pulling onto every hard climb on the rock.

Really non-stop, almost no breaks in between.

And made comments like "yeah, it's just that one move. so easy after that" \
"I don't think it's that hard."

And behavior that followed as such.

And that got on my nerves.

<br>

Not like I had any good reason for it.

But I started feeling competitive glances and stares.

They'd look at me pretty intently when I was trying. And I started to feel really really self conscious about myself.

I started to think "Oh, I need to prove I can do this move, and this climb." \
Show them that I'm some sort of alpha-male and that they're not. \
Get their approval that way.

Felt like they were judging me up, figuring out how strong I was, and evaluating if they were stronger or weaker.

And maybe that's true.

I do know there are people like that.

Some notorious people now "you can't hang a 22mm crimp paul, are you even a v8 climber?" \
"Wow Paul, you're kinda strong now. You sent Monkey Wrench?"

And I associated them with that crowd instantly.

<br>

Maybe they were and maybe they weren't.

I don't know.

But I started to believe they were. And then I just couldn't climb.

Overgripped, got frustrated, didn't rest enough. \
Got in my own head about the climbing and felt like I failed when I couldn't do the move.

Rather than my own typical happy state of just figuring out body positions and spewing happily about beta.

<br>

Like two hours later they left.

And some other familiar faces showed up, other people I was more familiar with.  \
And despite it being the end of my five hour session with skin dying and hunger pangs.

After a bit of therapy with Josh and a quick bathroom break, I pulled on and almost did the move. \
A few times in fact, felt like I was making progress again.

And felt like I climbed well. Was happy regardless of the outcome. \
And the outcome was pretty positive.

<br>

I think I'm a bit too self conscious.

Last time there were loads of people around, always are at Rat Rock, or in general at any crag. \
But it was fine then, since, well, it turns out I didn't really try that hard.

I did flash, or do most climbs second-go/third-go that session. \
Felt like I had lee-way and I was quite calm. \
And I was also okay failing - this wasn't my "goal" for the year or whatever.


Now that I'm trying something more limit.

Feels like I'm already sort of battling a mental battle of "oh can I do this move, can I do this climb?" \
And adding some sort of self-perceived social anxiety to that just turns into bad vibes very quickly.


I don't know what quite to do about it though.

<br>

For now, I'm thinking I just climb by myself. Or with close friends only at particular times of the day or the week when things are a lot less crowded.

I think I might test this this coming Thursday and see what happens.

I've done it before and I know what usually happens (I tend to climb pretty well and have a lot of fun). \
So I'm sort of convinced that it probably is the way for me going forward on a lot of things.


At the same time, I do really enjoy climbing with people.

And get very excited and supportive when others try hard. \
So it's a bit of a conundrum.

<br>

The expectations thing is also weird.

Certainly it's nice to be in that state of mind where you have no expectations and no attachment to your climbs (or anything really!).

But at the same time, it's not such a bad thing to push yourself either. \
To commit and try hard. \
To love that process.

But it does leave you in a vulnerable state.

And it turns out when I'm in that state, I get pretty bad social anxiety.

<br>

I will leave this note here for now.

Maybe update it after I go out solo again and see how it goes.

Could be fun, and y'know what, even thinking about going out alone and trying the moves.

I'm pretty excited again. Pretty excited just to be outdoors. Try hard, and have fun.
