---
layout: post
title: 'to: patrick'
---

I don’t trust you. 

I’m an engineer. One you don’t know and one you’ll forget about soon.

I’m a workaholic. I like work. Hard work. \
I worked 80 hour weeks regularly and happily.  \
Did everything asked of me and far more. All in the pursuit of purpose.

And you sold me on Stripe. \
Sold me on the culture, the mission, and the ideal.

“Increase the GDP of the internet.” \
“The startup for startups.” \
“You will, within weeks of joining Stripe, work on problems that no one here has solved before.” \
“When we mess up, miss a deadline, or slow down, it matters. We take that responsibility seriously.”

My last 18 months here have been anything but.

I joined and worked on account type removals - nothing but a glorified renaming scheme. \
Which consisted of doing a find-and-replace across our legacy code base for nearly a year. \
Quite comedic: much of the code we wrote and replace we didn’t own (and certainly didn’t understand). \
And often, in fact, we couldn’t find anyone who did! \
A telling state of the world’s leading payment processor.

Then it was a sleuth of overdue operations work. That never stopped and only continues to grow worse. \
Engineers pawning off operations work, desperate and pleading to avoid on-call. \
A clear state whereby we’re incentivized to do the bare minimum rather than be enabled to fix systemic root causes.

Some brief moment of reprieve when Next was promised. A period where we were encouraged to build and design. \
That all got scrapped just as quickly as it was proposed.

That promise to help small businesses? \
Only saw prioritization and politics based off how we can appease our larger customers. \
How to stop them from churning and how to gain new enterprise clients.

I grew all too used to it. \
I think back to what I worked on and what actually got used. A humorously low percentage. \
What actually delivered value? God knows. I hope you do.

Growing pains. \
Is that what you call it?

A dysfunctional company. \
That’s what I call it.

The Stripe I see and the Stripe you know are different. \
People ask me “What is Stripe like?” \
“You’ve been here for a while now right, what’s Stripe like?”

“I don’t know.” I reply. \
I sincerely don’t.

A hodgepodge of top tech talent turned into operations teams. \
A mess of high-performers who were overpromised and undersold. \
A cycle of churn, delusion, and willful ignorance. \
Blind leading the blind.

Blame me. \
Ask me, “why didn’t I voice this to my manager sooner?” \
“Why not ask these questions in the Friday Fireside” \
Or better yet, submit anonymous feedback.

It’s not for lack of trying for what it’s worth. \
The contrary, in fact.  \
A learned fear from real repercussions of speaking up.

Simply asking us to trust you. \
Simply asking us for ideas on how you can re-earn trust. \
Does nothing but irritate.

Is the onus on me to fix your team, your organization, your technology, your company? \
Give me a reason to. \
A promotion isn’t it.

A company is not a sum of its functions. \
A company is its people.

Stripe is not a payments processor. Or whatever half-working grand illusion we sell to clients. \
Stripe is its people. It is you, me, and all the faceless employees you hired.

Trust is hard earned and easily lost.

Good luck.
