---
layout: post
title: untitled unmastered 1
---

I’ve been writing quite a bit as of late.

Mostly essays, such as those published here, but on occasion more free-form and whimsical writing as well. \
I’ve taken to writing a diary where I’ve committed myself to log an entry daily.

The contents of it thus far are truly random and often incomprehensible. \
If the use of a diary is to provide a chronological account of the events in my life, it is a complete and utter failure.

I write whatever in it. \
I write to write.

Sometimes about the events of the day, directly or indirectly described and addressed. \
Sometimes about a thought, one that I might find insightful at the time and trite afterwards. \
Sometimes about nothing at all. \
Just like now.

Writing to write is weird. \
It’s unfamiliar, abstruse, and maybe even ill-intentioned.

To tune into me radio, disconsider any audience, and pleasure myself in my own sophistry and literary affectations. \
It’s quite vain and egotistical, arguably narcissistic. \
It’s a rare form of self-expression.

When talking to others, I am consciously and subconsciously restricted. \
Empathy binds me and I take care to position my words, my disposition and meanings to the other.

Doing so is a good thing and a necessary function to being a well-behaved member of society. \
Lacking empathy is despicable and laughable. Those who have a dearth of it often inflict harm on others. \
They believe that their reality supersedes others and that their truths, their values are all that matters.

Yet, empathy is perhaps a bad thing when it comes to writing.

<br>

I yearn to write well. But I don’t know what that means.

I’ve written my whole life in some form or another. \
Writing to persuade has been the majority.

Be it a business email or for the SATs, I wrote with a goal in mind. \
Each word, each sentence was crafted and written for a particular audience. I aimed to convince them of a cause and used my writing as a means to do so.

So success was defined. \
If I was successful, I got my way. If I was unsuccessful, I didn’t. \
And I was stubborn to a fault.

I believed that if I wrote better, if I was able to more eloquently and powerfully express my sentiments, that I would be able to persuade anyone of anything. \
I adopted the sales mindset, and though I knew there was a practical limit to elocution, I focused solely on it. \
I couldn’t change me, I would always be a presumptuous brat, but I could change how I presented myself.

It’s a tool, a powerful one. Pernicious and I was aware, but I sought mastery in it nevertheless.

<br>

The other form of writing I’ve done is confessional.

I’ve lived a relatively short life. Yet, I’ve also lived alone for quite some time now. \
I’ve always been independent, unquestionably so as a youth, and wanted to separate myself from my family as soon as possible. \
I wanted to be me, I had no idea who that was, but I didn’t want to be the son of my parents.

So after entering college, I spent very little time and shared very little with my family. \
I told them nothing, told them lies quite often and would just say everything’s okay. Perennially. \
That habit cemented itself after I left the house a few years later.

Not just family, I didn’t tell anyone anything. \
The people around me were foreign. They were much older and so different. \
What they cared about and what they lived for seemed so different than I. Aliens really.

So I learned to live by myself. \
Learned the practical necessities requisite and the mental faculties to keep myself sane. \
Writing became my lifeline.

In a world full of aliens, one that demanded I adopt their foreign language, the only place of respite I had was the pen. \
Here, I could be me. I could be sad, angry, confused. I could see me for me, just a lonely lost child.

In those writings, the only mark of success was honesty. \
That wasn’t a given.

More often than not, avoidance and reductionism would plague me. \
Self-assurance in the form of platitudes, bromides I would repeat to myself in a pitiful attempt at therapy.

I was afraid to confront fear and the negative emotions I harbored. \
Doing so would be equivalent to me admitting myself vulnerable. Admitting I was a human, a child. \
Nothing was more unacceptable.

Yet, I kept at it. As clumsy as I was. \
The more I wrote, the more comfort I found in writing and self.

Let go of garb and guise. \
I painted me: my insecurities, failings, and flaws.

Writing was therapy.

<br>

Nowadays, I’m not sure what writing is.

I can and do much of the same.

I don’t really write to persuade anymore. \
I don’t have the motives nor the audience to do so.

I do write for myself often still, but I grow bored of that too. \
I don’t find writing about myself or the topics I’m familiar with to be too interesting.

My past, though probably most interesting from an outsider’s standpoint, is something I’ve thought over, written about, digested and regurgitated hundreds of times. Same for work and my trauma there.

There is some intrigue and fun in doing so, which is why I’ll still continue to do so, but it very much does feel like a disciplined effort rather than an inspired one.

<br>

Moreover, writing well still eludes me.

What does that mean?

I know when I write poorly. When I write without intent or clarity, I drool on the keys and a messily composed muddled mess dumps out. \
Much like the above.

I realize I have my own style. It’s quite distinct. \
It reeks of me, and even in conscious efforts to restrain and revise, it finds itself seeping out onto the paper. \
Obvious to the reader, but I was unaware until recently.

Developing this style is one answer and one distinct avenue. In particular, restraint. \
To be able to diminish and fortify my voice at my choosing.

Exploring more forms of content and audiences is also interesting. \
Fiction confuses me. The process of how writers come about the content and the medium is almost mystical.

And though I’ve written primarily for an audience in the past, that audience was an extremely narrow self-similar set of people. People in the business or academic world, where logic and assertiveness are primary in making a defense. Writing for others, others I don’t understand as well, seems like an opportunity to learn empathy and ability.

There’s much to learn and much to do. \
I look forward to rereading this years from now and reflecting upon how my views have changed.

<br>

p.s.
much of this note has been written in one go and barely revised, with the exception of obvious grammatical and spelling mistakes. \
that was its novelty, but now rereading it, it doesn’t sound so different than what I usually write anyways. huh.
