---
layout: post
title: faang
---

FAANG. \
Facebook, Amazon, Apple, Netflix, and Google.

The companies that constitute big tech. \
There’s little need to explain their function.

They’ve succeeded.

Amazon started off as a book-store. Google, a research project. Facebook, a perverted attempt to get girls’ numbers. \
That stands in stark contrast with what they are now: multi billion dollar giants that lead the global economy.

What they are has become evident. \
What they do, however, has become less clear.

This piece is an attempt at describing the latter: what big tech does from a participants’ perspective.

<br>


Iteration is most of tech. \
The act of taking a successful product and improving upon it.

One form of iteration is globalization. \
If your product is successful domestically, take it, refactor it, and launch it globally.

That comes with a host of difficulties, but it’s rather easy for software. \
Though physical industries vary drastically across borders, e.g, the logistical network that Amazon built up in the U.S. isn’t directly translatable abroad, much of the Internet really is the same: all nascent and all strikingly self-similar.

The same code that powers Facebook in the United States powers it in the U.K, Italy, and Japan! \
Furthermore, any improvements to Facebook can, and typically are, released globally with little to no additional costs in doing so.

It’s easy to take the above for granted, particularly as one in tech. However, it is a marked advantage that technology has.

That all said, globalization isn’t trivial. \
There are challenges: differences in regulation, sociocultural norms, and the “hard” elements of each company that are less easily duplicated (e.g, Amazon). \
But for the most part, tech is able to globalize quickly and successfully.

<br>

Iteration can appear profound.

How does one make a product better? \
How does one make Instagram better? Netflix? Google?

Answering the above can seem difficult and those capable of doing so are oft revered. \
Yet, it’s not as complicated as it sounds. Feature development isn’t the act of mystic foresight your product manager will have you believe.

Some of it is simply duplication: copy what your competitors are doing. \
If your product lacks a feature that your competitor has, rebuild it and do it with haste.

Facebook’s strategy for the last decade is just that.

When Instagram was rising, they recognized the threat and duplicity in brand and acquired it. \
When Snapchat was trending, they quickly implemented Instagram stories and waged war. \
When they realized the rise of private messaging networks and the value inherent, they bought WhatsApp and doubled down on Messenger. \
Now with the resurgence of TikTok, they’re all-in on reels. \
Is BeReal next? Is the Metaverse their real bold-bet?

Who knows, but what’s clear is the strategy itself is effective.

The strategy itself isn’t unique to tech: stealing ideas from competitors is common in any industry. \
Yet, what’s notable is the ease in which it can do so.

A two-pizza team of dedicated engineers could rebuild Instagram in a few years; a statement corroborated regularly by startups in the Bay. \
It’s possible to build software, good software, quickly and cheaply.

It’s still hard to do, but, as with most things, money helps. \
With capital, you’re able to hire more, hire better, and move faster. \
Add in a lack of regulatory oversight and you have the makings of a terribly effective strategy.

<br>

An alternate approach to iteration is centered around the customer. \
Rather than obsess over competitors, obsess over the customer.

How can we serve our customer better?

An altruistic way of putting the thought, but a truer approach to feature development.

It’s not as simple as interviewing customers and asking what they want. \
Doing that exercise quickly tells you that customers want a lot - and what they want is all different!

What companies end up doing is first defining a metric by which to measure success. And then trying just about everything to increase that metric.

If it goes up, launch it, claim the win and pat ourselves on the back. \
If it goes down, revert it, rollback and try again.

There’s importance in the choice of metric and what it represents.

For social media companies, it’s typically engagement of sorts: be that clicks, views, or likes on a particular piece of content. \
For advertising companies, it might be similar but more directly measure ad spend. \
For retail companies, it’s either transactional revenue or profit, sometimes a mix of both.

Whatever it is, the metric itself represents what the company has chosen to optimize for and what it believes customer satisfaction is equated to.

Once it’s defined and you have a means to measure it, it doesn’t really matter what you do, especially if you have the capital to spend. \
Just hire a million monkeys to run A-B experiments, launch what finds success, revert what doesn’t, and you’ll soon be basking in incrementality.

Tech is able to measure success easily (and change its definition if need be), run these experiments without any real risk, and do so at a breakneck pace.

A quote from Bezos often tossed around the office was: “If you can double the number of experiments you run, you can double your inventiveness.” \
Though I have my doubts if inventiveness was the right word to use, the sentence has its truths.

<br>

Innovation is next.

If the process of iteration is going from one to many, innovation is going from zero to one. \
The act of creating a new product.

Zero to one isn’t the most factual way to describe it. There’s always precedent and nothing is truly unique. \
Many innovations are a result of applying novel techniques developed in academia or other industries to a different domain.

Yet, from the customer and the market’s perspective, it is novel. Innovation can result in new lines of business and even entire industries, regardless of its source or originality.

AWS is the most outspoken example, starting off as a sabbatical project by two principal engineers in South Africa and turning into the primary source of gross profit for Amazon.

There’s also less successful endeavors. \
Google Glass, which despite all the glamor it received in 2012, ended up doing nothing but giving a bunch of egotistical computer science majors burn marks on their temples.

For the few successful products we see, there are thousands more lying in San Fran's graveyard.

<br>

Tech companies will always fund and champion efforts at innovation, even if it isn’t practical. \
Because they must.

Much of the intrinsic value around tech is based around future growth. \
This was especially true in the last decade, where angel investors were rife and just about any idea from a few MIT college grads got millions in seed funding. \
Less so now, given the economic downturn and general pessimism, but the thinking still exists that tech will innovate and create net new value outside of projected growth.

It’s a rare perspective elsewhere. \
We don’t expect Coca Cola to do any better next year than this, outside of a few carefully estimated projections. \
There’s no expectation that they create Coke 2.0 out of a mad science lab, which will better addict and consume the American population. \
But there is some expectation that the Metaverse might work and Zuck is a genius beyond our times.

<br>

There’s other reasons why tech companies continue to innovate (or at least advertise that they do.)

Engineers like innovation and crave the new. \
Engineers like building new things because working on old things is boring.

If I ask new hires: would you rather work on Amazon Go, where you’d develop computer vision algorithms to build the future of retail, or maintain a tiny little checkout button on the website, nearly everyone would say the former.

HR is very well aware of this fact and will always sell the idea and the possibility of innovation to candidates, despite that not being reality.

Similarly, it’s an effective tactic to keep talent as well.

Google, or should I say Alphabet, is the leading example here. \
They realized that their engineers, the ones who built the products their businesses are precipitated upon, are getting bored. \
These engineers, the good ones, the “rock stars”, and the “must keeps”, don’t want to iterate on a product they built years ago.

So Google let them. \
They introduced a caste system, where engineers who had proven their chops were allowed to create and lead ambitious whimsical projects, and those who didn’t continued to work as-is: a humdrum rhythm of iteration and maintenance. The majority of these projects ended up failing (Google Glass, Google+, Project Ara), yet Google still stood to profit.

Rather than letting nature take its course, engineers leaving and starting up companies of their own, Google retained them by letting them do so under its own umbrella. Their successes would be Google’s and vice-versa. \
The engineers get the benefit of continuing to be paid a high salary and enjoying cushy work benefits, while Google reaps any future revenue, intellectual property, and equity.

And above all, they’ve kept the good ones from leaving.

<br>

Finally, what’s left is maintenance.

Operations work. The shit-of-life nobody really wants to do, except the rare few that truly enjoy it for what it is.

It’s easy to write code. It’s hard to maintain code.

The smaller your codebase is, the faster you can iterate and the easier it is to maintain. \
There’s less to learn, fewer acts of duct-tape and super glue, and more general translatability to the broader tech world.

The larger your codebase is, and god forbid it’s been labeled “legacy”, the harder it is to iterate and maintain. \
There’s more to learn, less means to do so (both in people and documentation), and an obscene specificity in its knowledge.

Big tech stands upon decades of legacy software written by engineers long gone now maintained by new grads often younger than the codebase itself.

Amazon’s primary web server was built nearly two decades ago in a homegrown web-framework consisting of Perl, HTML, and Linux binaries, and still continues to render the majority of all Amazon.com pages. \
Banks and large financial institutions use Pascal for most of their bookkeeping, a programming language that first appeared in the 1970s. They now face a hiring crisis as nearly no modern-day engineers are fluent or have any work experience in Pascal.

The above examples are extremities, but in any company of decent size and tenure, you will have legacy code and the problems that arise from it.

Legacy code is how software dies.

<br>

The lifecycle of software begins with unbounded optimism.

A new idea sparks the flame and a period of jubilant innovation follows.  \
Everyone understands everything and anyone can work on anything.

As things grow, things slowly change. Things slow down. \
Iteration becomes slower and increasingly expensive.

Some companies are able to keep pace through deliberate decisions to decouple and expedite, even at the expense of short-term costs. \
Others aren’t, others are stubborn to keep doing what has worked, and slowly find themselves in a precarious situation.

Eventually, you get to a point where the cost of iteration has outpaced the value it provides. \
A feature that should take a few dev weeks to build is now being estimated as a multi-quarter stretch goal.

The people who understand the codebase are scant and they too feel the urge to leave as they grasp their bearings. \
A routine operations task that should take an hour to mitigate now takes a concerted effort led by the most senior engineer who only joined a year ago himself.

Iteration grinds to a halt and the cost of maintenance skyrockets as all your domain knowledge experts leave.

So what now?

A re-write is proposed. We'll fix all the problems in the old codebase by jumping ship and rewriting a new one.

The effort commences and the organization divides into two: a v1 team and a v2 team. \
The v1 team will keep the lights on the old stack and the v2 team will courageously build the future.

This doesn’t work.

Very few want to be a part of the v1 team. \
They’re incentivized to do the bare minimum that will suffice rather than be encouraged to fix root causes and prevent further systemic failures. \
Why bother fixing the problem if you can just turn off the detector that alerted you of it instead.

The v2 team has its issues too. \
They’re detached from reality; building their dream framework in a sea of baseless theory and speculation. \
They don’t know what v1 does, the product it serves and the problems it has. \
After all, why would they? There's a separate team for that.

In the end, most of these endeavors end in failure. \
There’s some compromise and some successes claimed, but nothing ever goes as planned with any migration.

Usually both stacks live, v1 and v2, now even more discordant and dysfunctional between the two.

<br>

It is possible to fix.

Doing so is a herculean effort. \
It requires not only hard work, but also the conviction and reason to do so. It’s difficult, onerous, grimy work for very little reward. \
Finding those capable and willing in a corporate environment where very few people care is unlikely.

In the end, it’s about people. \
Software has its challenges, but if you have the right people working for the right reasons, you will find a way.

Trite, but I’d like to believe it.

<br>

Tech is iteration, innovation, and maintenance.

A decade ago I became a Computer Science major and took my first intro to programming class. Tech was different then.

Things were starting to take flight. Dreams of Silicon Valley were spread around, the New York Times evangelized Google has one of the best places to work on earth, and the very year after I enrolled was the first year my university saturated the major.

Tech was cool back then.

Things are different now. \
Most of the iteration has been done. What’s left is increasingly complex and contrived. Though still valuable, it’s less and less practical. \
The innovations have slowed. I struggle to see the value in crypto and virtual reality. Whether that’s a symptom of personality or a blunt observation, time will tell. \
Maintenance is what’s left. And maybe what it will be for a long while.

Amazon is an everything store. \
Google is the Internet’s search engine.  \
Facebook is a modern day necessity.

They’ve succeeded. \
And perhaps their stories have come to an end.
