---
layout: post
title: unhinged
---

Send v10 or find love. 

I answered v10 a year ago. A bit jokingly, but a bit seriously too. \
Now, well, it’s the latter.

Love’s been a very fuzzy idea for me.\
Before, I thought of it mostly as companionship. A friend who I was attracted to and vice-versa.

That would be nice. More than nice.

But I didn’t need it either. My life was fine without.

I was happy being me - being obsessed over something. Whatever that thing might be. \
And that’s part of the reason why I haven’t really sought it out.


<br>

I came to think of love a bit differently. 

“Nothing left to prove, only myself to give”

A phrase I wrote recently in the context of career. \
A bit of an aside, but I can’t seem to motivate myself in the same ways I used to.

Some vague insecure sense of ambition used to drive me. \
As a kid, I wanted to go to college. I wanted to be “special.” Live up to the expectations that my parents placed. \
After that, I wanted to be the “best programmer in the world.” Be the best amongst my peers. \
And after graduating, I wanted to “prove myself in industry.” Show that I can succeed in business.
 
And now, I’m frankly just a bit too chill.

I really can’t care for my career any less.\
Sure, there’s certain skills I could learn, certain goals I could set that would be challenging and make me grow. \
Maybe that’s trying to be a director at some FAANG firm in a few years. Some Forbes 30 under 30 shit. \
But, call it overconfidence if you’d like, I’m pretty sure that’s something I can do. I don’t think I’d fail.

So I’d rather try something I’m not sure I can. Give myself to an ideal. Martyr for a cause. \
Do what I want to do and believe in.

<br>
 	
That’s not where this note ends though. \
I fell into a bit of a trap.

I started thinking “I should give myself to another.” \
I should find someone and devote myself to them.

It’s a little odd to say exactly why that thought was so potent. Giving has always been a weird concept.

Doing things for others has always been an act of selfishness in my mind. \
At the end of the day, I do it because it gives me some sort of satisfaction that I did the “right” thing. \
That compared to what I could be doing, probably some random act of hedonism, it’s a more meaningful thing. \
So I just do it, to sleep better and not regret the alternative.

I grew attached to this idea: that if I found someone, someone special enough to me, I could just give myself to them. \
And that would be my meaning and my everything.

Then began the rationalizations. That my interests, my career, and my past were all meaningless. \
Why climb, why try hard. \
Why work, why create. \
Why write, why do anything really. \
If it’s not love.

I felt bad, real bad. The curtains crept in. \
Sleeping in, feeling lethargic, feeling really sorry for myself and knowing it too. \
Felt trapped. Felt like I couldn’t make progress to this one thing I was searching for. \
Didn’t want to pin my hopes on anything, on anyone. \
So just felt stuck and alone.

<br>

I forgot how much there was to life.

My life revolved around one thing in the past: my career. That wasn’t the healthiest. \
And similarly, it’s probably bad for me to center my life around this one thing as well.

I shouldn’t feel bad about liking the things I do - about loving the things I do.

I love climbing. And yeah, the weird parts too. \
I like trying hard, I like projecting, I like testing my limit and failing too.

I love tech. Some parts of it. \
I love the possibility. What it can enable is amazing, despite the reality of what it is and how it’s perpetuated. \
Maybe I’ll grow to regret writing this, after I’ve tried again and again, but I do believe it now.

I love writing, I love cooking, I love fashion, I love music. \
I can get into a lot of things and love them. \
I don’t want to ever feel bad about that and deny myself.

These things aren’t just to pass the time either, to keep myself from overthinking and ennui. \
They are my meaning. All small parts of it.

<br>

And y’know dating’s just not for me.

Fuck hinge, that shit’s corny as fuck. \
Fuck the prompts, the photos, the things it makes you do. \
Fuck dates. The faces we wear, the questions we ask, the whole thing. \
Fuck that.

I’ll live and love the things I do. \
If I’m lucky enough to find love one day, I’ll give myself up and maybe that’ll be it. \
If not, I’ll still be me. 

Be happy and grateful for everything I do have. \
Be a little lonely for a little longer. And smile through it.

Maybe I'll get a dog.
