---
layout: post
title: kettle
---

My mind is a mess.

It is evident in the way I write. \
Words are mixing with one another; sentence and form rapidly flittering apart in incongruous dance.

The kettle is boiling. \
It is squealing and it is screaming. \
It cannot be turned off. \
I can only stare as I crank the burner higher.

<br>

I've been reading much. And there is much to think about and reflect upon.

It is with shame I admit the topics of my interest: sociopolitical issues, gender studies, and racial identity. \
It embarasses me that it is only now that I feel the need to edify.

When I lived as a proud capitalist, my focus was on matters of necessity: career and personal wellbeing. \
Now that I've attained some sense of security, my attention changes to these previously notioned secondary concerns.

This rationality frustrates me. \
It inspires the desire to rebel, to transgress and harbor contradiction.

<br>

I don't like learning. \
I question those who claim they do.

Is it fun being challenged? \
Do you like to admit ignorance, weakness, sin? \
Do you like change? 

I don't.

My ego is a perverse creature. \
It does not like to be hurt and will go to extreme measures to prevent otherwise.

There is a certain bravery required in vulnerability. \
And I am a coward, proven time and time again.

<br>

What I do and who I am are inextricably tied.

If I am unable to embody an ideal, it stands that I should discard it.

It is easy to espouse a belief when it comes at little cost. \
It is harder to do so when it directly implicates you.

I am attacking myself. \
I am critiquing, analyzing, and provoking the bigot inside.

Is there more I can do. \
That is the question.

I lack. And always will.

<br>

All that to say, I'm taking myself a bit too seriously. \
Even though I recognize the fact, it's hard to rectify.

Time for a nap.
