---
layout: post
title: lighter
---

Lighter is better.

A statement hard to refute. \
Climbing is a bodyweight sport. To improve, you either gain strength or lose weight.

We pursue the former with rigor: anyone motivated to climb hard will be training in some form, be it a complex multiphase training plan or simply climbing regularly to the point of exhaustion. \
The latter is taboo, it tempts us and is a somber reality for a few.

<br>

If only I was lighter. \
The phrase lives rent-free.

It’s hard not to think about. It’s true, after all.

Prior to my first climbing trip to Red Rocks, I set a goal for myself to be in the “best shape of my life.” \
I did so by losing 15 pounds, dropping from an already lean physique to one on the verge of collapse.
I starved myself eating 1200 calories a day while continuing to train and do cardio. \
I obsessed over food, counting the minutes till my next meal while distracting myself with caffeine and carbonation.
I stuffed myself sick with sugar free jell-o and unseasoned popcorn. \
I lost sleep, hair, and some amount of sanity I might not ever recover.

And it worked.

I felt strong, sent harder than I ever have, and broke through plateaus. \
I was weightless.

<br>

It’s not just me. \
Eating disorders are climbing’s worst kept secret.

A glance at our bodies will give you a clue and observing our diets will make it a certainty.

Intentional caloric restriction is ubiquitous, but it’s not accepted to be candid about. \
If you do starve yourself, you should keep it to yourself, lest you inspire or trigger others.

Almost sounds like we’re talking about steroids.

“Are you natty or not?” \
“Are you anorexic or not?”

<br>

It’s taboo for a reason. \
It’s human to shy away from the obscene. \
We refuse to acknowledge our evils; we fear that by doing so, they will pervade and consume us instead.

But it’s a poor reason. \
Only by accepting reality are we able to come to grasp with it and look ahead.

Climbing is a bodyweight sport. And lighter is better.

Yes, you can always get stronger, but the rate by which you do so is painfully slow. \
A fast rate of improvement for finger strength would be 10% of your bodyweight annually, as measured by max hangs.

I could lose that in a few weeks. \
And not only would that improve maximum strength, it improves everything. \
Power, endurance, injury risk, and even arguably technique.

Losing weight is the single most effective way to get stronger in the short-term. \
You can, and probably will, jump a grade or two if you cut enough.

<br>

But there are downsides.

Sports science is ill researched and loudly publicized. Much of the training advice you’ll get, particularly in a sport as niche and nascent as climbing, is pure machismo rhetoric. However, one truth is that you can only get stronger in a caloric surplus. \
You gotta eat big to get big.

There’s a bit of nuance to that too, but the overall directive stands. \
Food is a tool, and if you want to train more and build strength, be that upper body, posterior chain, or even your fingers, you need to be eating enough of it.

Anecdotally, after gaining weight, I found my ability to recover and train exceeding expectations. \
At my lightest, I had only a few attempts in a session before petering out. Now my sessions are twice as long.

And that’s fun! \
I get to do more of what I love: climbing (and eating.) \
I might not be sending as hard as I could, but I’m able to do a lot more of it.

<br>

The effect of bodyweight is most pronounced on finger strength. \
Nowhere else is an additional pound heavier than on the hangboard.

There are particular styles and problems which place an undue emphasis on finger strength. \
The all so fashionable and cool style of cutting feet on tiny holds.

But climbing is more than hanging. \
If the sport was nothing but who could hang off the tiniest edges with the most added weight, I would’ve lost interest (or broken my fingers) long ago. \
The beauty of climbing is in its complexity: the different styles, disciplines, and intricacies even in the most mundane movements.

<br>

We are the outcomes of our attitudes.

I remember watching old videos of Alex Megos training, campusing, moving weightlessly through the boards and thinking that was it. That was cool, that was what climbing’s about.

Now I think that’s kinda lame.

Appreciating more styles and strengths in climbing helps me fixate less on my weight. \
I’m moving the goalpost a bit. And that’s changing my idealized body image as a result.

I’m not giving up on my style. \
I’ll always be a crimp climber and have no plans otherwise.

But I want to do that differently. \
I want to excel in it by climbing in a style unique to me, one that takes advantage of my strengths and my body.

I won’t compromise. \
I think it’s possible and might even be optimal. \
I want to prove that I feel my strongest at a heavier weight. \
I want to kill the thought that lighter is better.

<br>

That all said, I probably will lose some weight in the future.

I can’t say I won’t.  \
If I find some project and obsess over it, grit my teeth and commit myself to whatever it takes, the thought once again rears its ugly head.

But not anytime soon.

That shit’s corny - to go all siege tactics and project some chossy climb in the Gunks.

I got big dreams and aspirations. \
I want to send some crazy shit. \
I want to put up some sick FAs and get on mellow. \
I want to be climbing for decades to come.

I’m sure of that. And even if I don’t, the mindset is one I’d rather take. \
One of love and one of commitment. \
A life-long approach.

So it’s not worth it. Not now and maybe not ever.
