---
layout: post
title: diet
---


A mood for a musing. \
I’ve been thinking about food.

I was a bratty gourmand as a child.

I only ate what I liked, and though I had surprisingly little reservation on the type of food, I was adamant on the quality of it. \
If I was served bad food, I would refuse to eat it. One bite was all it took and then abstinence (or indulgence) followed.

My parents hated it and tried to teach me otherwise.

After a particularly pungent incident where I spat out naengmyeon, my dad dictated that my diet for the next month be kimchi and rice: for breakfast, lunch, and dinner. Certainly not healthy, and questionable as to whether it even taught me anything. Given my lack of reflection, probably not. \
All I remember was the day we broke the fast with a fried egg. In that yolk I found heaven.

All that to say, I loved food.

Pumpkin pie, brisket, hamburgers \
Pasta aglio e olio, charcuterie, lampredotto \
Buckwheat noodles, stinky old kimchi, grilled pork belly

Just about everything and anything.

<br>

Things changed.

I was 11 at the time. Hormones undulated relentlessly and its effects were pronounced. \
My voice dropped a few octaves, my body grew in stature, and my eyes opened.

I became self aware, self-conscious of how I looked and how others perceived me. \
The infallible armor of innocence had worn out and I was poking and prodding at myself.

Am I handsome, am I ugly? \
Am I dumb, am I smart? \
Am I fat?

I got my answers when a girl refused a clumsy show of affection by calling me “short and ugly” in Korean I barely understood. \
Welp, guess that’s it.

But I was nothing if not obstinate.

After wallowing in self-pity and drowning in my bed, I set about determined to change. \
I accepted reality. I couldn’t change much about my appearance or height. But I could change my weight.

And that was the first time I went on a diet.

<br>

Now, more than a decade later, I’m still on a diet.

I’m no longer as insecure about my appearance as I once was.

Part of it is I care less. \
I care less about how other people view me. Whether they think I’m handsome or ugly, I think little of it. \
There’s more to me than my face, my height, and my fashion. I know that, and that gives me relief.

Part of it is I've grown to like how I look. \
I think I’m a little ugly. Certainly not attractive, as I’m still all too well in-tune with conventional beauty standards. \
But I like how I look: a representation of me, my past, my struggles, and my beliefs.

<br>

Yet I still diet.

My relationship with food has been tampered with, warped, and distorted over the years. \
The idea of intuitive eating is in vogue, where one eats when hungry and stops when full. \
Simple, isn’t it?

It seems so foreign and scary. \
I know what I would do: binge exorbitant amounts of sugary fatty processed goods and then starve myself for a few days after in regret.
That’s my intuition.

Sad, yes, I wish I could care less too. \
But I don’t. So I track the amount I eat and the effect it takes. Knowing is a source of security and comfort.

Safe foods. \
Meals I weigh out daily and know the macronutrients of by heart. Designed to be filling, nutritious, and consistent. \
Examples include egg white french toast, oatmeal with blueberries and flax, sweet potatoes and salmon.

I’ve grown to like these meals, these anabolic concoctions. I do. I find them tasty and enjoy them. \
They help me think less of food and I rely on them to be a steady source of nutrition and satiety. \
Much like I used to don the same few outfits year round as a corporate clog, I find comfort in routine.

I fear not knowing what I eat. \
I get anxiety when dining out, my mind estimates the rough calories of each bite I take and tapers my appetite accordingly. \
I veer heavily on the side of restraint, and if I indulge, I punish my body twofold the day after.

<br>

It’s hard to fix. \
And even the word fix irritates me.

Don’t say I’m skinny. \
Don’t look at me with pity. \
Don’t call it a disorder.

<br>

People love food.

We obsess over it. \
It’s a necessity, a hobby, an occasion, a culture. \
It surrounds us in all its forms; it’s natural to think much of it.

Food is identity. \
We get attached to our favorite foods, our predilections and choices of cuisine. \
We derive identity from our diets.

<br>

Both America and South Korea are particularly food obsessed.

The newest trendy diet is sold and recycled continuously, promises of a toned physique, six pack abs, and a better life soon to follow. \
That takes on its incarnations: cut out fats entirely, no avoid carbs instead, actually, eat whatever you like but only once a day.

Why is it that we gravitate towards the extremities and absolutes to adopt such a singular attitude about food, be that its function or flavor. \
Why is it not possible to eat healthy for a day and luxuriously for another without feeling such dichotomy.

Perhaps it’s simplicity. \
My ego cannot handle, or at least not easily, a diversity of options and attitudes all at once. It would rather adopt one, and for that to be as simple as possible. \
That might take form as a total caloric goal or some accepted taxonomy of food groups. \
Regardless, it is stubborn and rigid once defined, with a strong characterization of what’s good and what's bad.

<br>

Food is complex.

What it does and the effect it takes. The joy it gives, the occasions it creates. \
It’s not possible to prescribe a single attitude towards it. Even the most mundane, “eat what you want”, won’t work for everyone.

What seems worth doing is to recognize and accept the diversity of it. \
It's more than nutrition and more than flavor.

All food is good.

Tasty food, processed food, shitty food, and healthy food. \
But the only sin is to project one’s own values and attitude on the diets of others.

I too am guilty.

I worry when others lose weight. The tell-tale signs of self restraint are all too obvious to me. \
Zero calorie drinks, pushing food, eating little but somehow always full too.  \
It’s everything I did.

We will only ever know that we have felt. \
And in the faces of others, we often see ourselves.

<br>

It’s better now. 

I feel happier and more secure in my relationship with food. \
I binge eat less, spend fewer hours thinking about it, and fixate less on the purely performative aspects of it. \
I’m starting to identify the foods that give me joy (all sorts of baked goods really) and slowly re-incorporate them into my diet.

Much of my fear, I realize, was rooted in a lack of control.

I suffered to get as lean as I was. The thought of doing that again was horrifying. \
I had to maintain. I had to eat my allocated calories. \
Erring meant failure, it meant forfeiting the identity I painstakingly built up. 

Now, I feel much the same, only a bit more confident. \
If I gain weight, so be it, I can lose it again. And only if I want to at that.

I probably will continue to weigh my food and my self for a long while. \
That’s okay.

I won't claim to have figured it out. \
It's a process, one that may never end.

But I'll keep trying.
