---
layout: post
title: untitled unmastered 2
---

It is with reticence I begin.

Writing has become difficult, but not for the reasons I expect. The paranoia of the blank page remains. How to begin, continue and end. Yet it is not the daunt of creativity that stunts me, it is the subject.

My social muscles have atrophied, and all for the better I say. I have been called fake before, a label I know to be true. My reactions and responses are all a carefully crafted sequence of mimicry and blandishment, designed to obscure me and aggrandize the other.

I tire of such social affairs. I would rather not give the impression of conviviality perpetually. I do not want to partake in nor demand conversation of an unwilling other. If I am sad, if I am tired, I wish to answer just.

Yet, as hypocritically as always, I found myself making acquaintances with a pair of strangers as of yet. They guessed at my occupation from my dress, an ensemble of a collarless shirt and a checkered blazer. An architect, designer, creative director they called me. All quite flattering, I’m guessing they too must’ve read Dale Carnegie.

I revealed the sobering truth, that I was unemployed and lost as to what’s next. To that, a cheer erupted and we extolled “funemployment” together. They then asked me what I was up to. What exactly, now that I had been liberated from the shackles of capitalistic slavery, was I doing. I listed a few hobbies: climbing, cooking, and writing. I returned the question in kind and found that the two were aspiring creatives.

One mentioned that she loved to write as well and was taking a class on creative writing. High praise she gave it, speaking of how transformative and freeing the experience was. Fiction seemed primarily her domain, that inspired by her own life, romantic affairs, and imagination. She asked me what I wrote.

“Poetry and just some small little things,” was my answer.

It is difficult to describe what I write. An essay is most apt when evaluated on matters of form alone, but I don’t think my writings worthy of the word. They are far too thoughtless, personal, and meandering in their nature. There is no call to action or moral to be gleamed. Only a sea of words lost in rhetoric self gratification.

Furthermore, I am well aware of by which they are received.

It is vain, a characteristic I’ve claimed as literary necessity. \
It is pretentious, by nature of diction and phrasing. \
It is ugly, inherent in its cynical and solipsistic nature. 

Yet I still write.

I know it to be a rather pointless thing. A part of me is becoming increasingly convinced that writing makes little sense as career. Oh the dreaded word, how we return only after a few fleeting months.

It is tempting to assume an ethical view. That I should quit writing, since it only serves as an act of self with no other purpose. Or that I should attach purpose to my writing: become a journalist, write on things of broader interest and political value.

What is clear, in the pages that have passed, is where my interests lie. I find no point in fiction, besides as a device to distance the reader from topics too obscene. Reality is what interests me. It is so vivid, so beautiful and striking in its essence.

To simply observe and portray.
